Update all the packages and dependencies installed on the system:
 apt update && apt upgrade
 If any update is available it will ask you on the terminal if you want to upgrade or not, press Y if you want the update.


Grant storage permission:
 termux-setup-storage
now you can access your Storage and all the folder in it using termux.


Know Which directory you are in:
 pwd
This command will tell you, your present working directory


List all the files and directories:
 ls
this command will show you the folder and files in your current working directory.


Move forward in directories:
 cd storage
cd command allows you to move in a folder just type cd and the folder name you wanna move here I am moving in storage.


Move backward in directories:
 cd ..
 by typing cd ..(between cd and .. we have to put space) you will go back in the directory you were in.


Clear Screen:
 clear
by typing clear in the termux you can clear all the previous results.


Create a folder or a directory:
 mkdir folderName
Mkdir Stand for make directory. Type mkdir and give a space and type folder name and press enter to see the folder you have just created just type ls.


Delete a folder or a directory:
 rmdir folderName
Rmdir stands for Remove Directory.Type rmdir space folder name to remove that folder.


Delete Non-Empty directory or folder in termux:
 rm -rf folderName
Please use this command with caution.This command will remove a folder and all the files and folders within it.This command is useful when you want to delete any project downloaded from Github.


Copy a file from one directory to another directory:
 cp files-name file-path
You can copy files by typing cp the file name and after giving a space you can type the path where you wanna copy the file E.g: cp virus.apk /storage/shared this will copy the virus.apk to the storage/shared folder.


Search for the specific package in termux:
 pkg search package-name
It will show you all the package related to that package name.


List all the available packages in termux:
 pkg list-all
it will show you all the packages that are available in the APT repository of termux.


Install a Package:
 pkg install packageName
you can install any package from the list, just type pkg install package-name.


Uninstall a Package:
 pkg uninstall packageName
you can uninstall any package from the list, just type pkg uninstall package-name.it will ask you where if you wanna delete the package or not press y and the package will be uninstalled.


Install Python in termux:
 pkg install python
Just type this command and it will be installed in your termux press y if it asks for confirmation.after installing python you can write code and also run your own python scripts. Type python to check if python is properly installed or not.


Install Git in termux:
 pkg install git
Git will allow you to download any project from the github.
